README.md, before:

# Proper Case Challenge

Case Challenge for Proper, part of the interview process

Participant information

- Name: Manuel Panichelli
- Email: panicmanu@gmail.com
- LinkedIn: [/in/manuel-panichelli/](https://www.linkedin.com/in/manuel-panichelli/)

## Case 1

> **Assignment**: Write a program that downloads the images from
http://icanhas.cheezburger.com/ and stores them locally. Only download graphics
that are memes on the page and not sponsored content. Download the first ten
memes on the homepage and store them locally. Name them `1.jpg`, ..., `10.jpg`.

I started out by inspecting the page, and noticed that memes are all `img`
elements with the image urls on the `src` tags.

When I tried scraping the images, I'd get weird URLs in the `src` tag like
`data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAAAAACH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAI=`. I realized
that's because it lazy loads images, and the `src` tag starts out with a dummy
value which is replaced with `data-src` later. So I considered both.

I found the scraping framework [`colly`](http://go-colly.org/) which seems easy
enough to use, so I'll use that from now on.

## References

- Web Scraping
  - https://www.scrapingbee.com/blog/web-scraping-go/
  - http://go-colly.org/
- DOM: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document_Object_Model/Introduction
- CSS selectors: https://www.w3schools.com/cssref/css_selectors.php

Commit message:

Add parameter `amount` to configure the amount of memes to download
If it's more than the ones on the first page, it goes to the next page to find
more

README.md, after:

# Proper Case Challenge

Case Challenge for Proper, part of the interview process

Participant information

- Name: Manuel Panichelli
- Email: panicmanu@gmail.com
- LinkedIn: [/in/manuel-panichelli/](https://www.linkedin.com/in/manuel-panichelli/)

## Case 1

> **Assignment**: Write a program that downloads the images from
http://icanhas.cheezburger.com/ and stores them locally. Only download graphics
that are memes on the page and not sponsored content. Download the first ten
memes on the homepage and store them locally. Name them `1.jpg`, ..., `10.jpg`.

I started out by inspecting the page, and noticed that memes are all `img`
elements with the image urls on the `src` tags.

When I tried scraping the images, I'd get weird URLs in the `src` tag like
`data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAAAAACH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAI=`. I realized
that's because it lazy loads images, and the `src` tag starts out with a dummy
value which is replaced with `data-src` later. So I considered both.

I found the scraping framework [`colly`](http://go-colly.org/) which seems easy
enough to use, so I'll use that from now on.

## Case 2

> **Assignment**: Extend the program to accept a parameter named `amount` that
determines how many memes need to be downloaded. Hint: if it's more than on the
first page, I expect the program to go to the next page.

Inspecting the page, I realized that the page links where just an `href` to
`/page/{pageNumber}`. I can take advantage of this by visiting
`https://icanhas.cheezburger.com/page/{pageNumber}` instead of doing something
more complicated that involves scraping to go to the next page.

To support flags, I'll just use the [`flag`](https://pkg.go.dev/flag) pkg
because it's simple. If it was more complicated I'd consider using something
like [`cobra`](https://github.com/spf13/cobra)

## References

- Web Scraping
  - https://www.scrapingbee.com/blog/web-scraping-go/
  - http://go-colly.org/
- DOM: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document_Object_Model/Introduction
- CSS selectors: https://www.w3schools.com/cssref/css_selectors.php
